# Counter 
In this chapter, we introduce counter which is a simple decentralized application(dApp) that stores a number and exposes methods to `increment`, `reset` and `query` it. 

## Start the Counter

In previous chapter, we suggest you install `Beaker` toolchain. When scaffold new project by using `Beaker`, you will see `Counter` example project. Other, you can choose another way is use `cargo generate` to create project. In this guide, we will use `Beaker` to show how create and deploy a smart-contract. Now let's do it. In the directory you want reside it, run:

```bash
beaker new counter-dapp
```

This gives you 2 template options to choose from. For the sake of this tutorial, let's use the down arrow button to select `counter-example`. 

```
? 🤷   Which starting template would you like to use? ›
  minimal
❯ counter-example
```

This will generate new directory called `counter-dapp` which, by default, come from [this template](https://github.com/osmosis-labs/beaker/tree/main/templates/project).

So what's in the template? Let's have a look simple dApp anatomy.

```bash
.
├── .beaker 
├── .cargo 
├── contracts
├── frontend
├── ts/sdk
├── .gitignore
├── Beaker.toml
└── Cargo.toml
```

For your information, we explain each file.

`.beaker`
It contains information about smart-contract(code_id, addresses, label) for each network when you store smart-contract successful. 
While state.json file is there for mainnet and testnet state, state.local.json file is intended to use locally and being gitignored since its state will not make any sense on other's machine.

`contracts`
This is where smart-contracts are stored. Single workspace can contain multiple contracts.

With counter-example template, this should have counter contract pregenerated. Beside, you can scaffold many contracts in this folder by run this cli:

```bash
beaker wasm new <contract_name>
```

`frontend`
This should be self explanatory, it's where frontend and contracts are stored.

With counter-example template, it demonstrate how frontend app can access deployed code/contract's info through .beaker. It does so by symlinking .beaker into frontend directory, and since states in .beaker are in json format, javascript code can just import them.

With minimal template, this directory does not exist, which means it does not assume your frontend choice. In that case, you might want to checkout create-cosmos-app for scaffolding your frontend or just create one from scratch.

`Beaker.toml`
All configuration need to write in here. Now let's have a look.

```toml
name = ''
gas_price = '0.025uaura'
gas_adjustment = 1.3
account_prefix = 'aura'
derivation_path = '''m/44'/118'/0'/0/0'''

[networks.serenity]
chain_id = 'serenity-testnet-001'
network_variant = 'Shared'
grpc_endpoint = 'https://grpc.serenity.aura.network:9092'
rpc_endpoint = 'https://rpc.serenity.aura.network'

[accounts.signer]
mnemonic = 'your mnemonic'

```

The structure of configuration you can see details in this [link](https://github.com/osmosis-labs/beaker/blob/main/docs/config/README.md). 

## Contract
The contract presents 2 methods: execute and query. 

### Deploy contract
Each network you want to store and instantiate contract, you must define them in `Beaker.toml`. You can copy example we write 
Now contract can be deployed (build + store-code + instantiate) using the following command:
```bash
beaker wasm deploy counter --signer-account signer --no-wasm-opt --raw '{ "count": 0 }' --network serenity
```

What's happening here equivalent to the following command sequence:
```bash
# build .wasm file
# stored in `target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/<CONTRACT_NAME>.wasm`
# `--no-wasm-opt` is suitable for development, explained below
beaker wasm build --no-wasm-opt

# read .wasm in `target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/<CONTRACT_NAME>.wasm` due to `--no-wasm-opt` flag
# use `--signer-account test1` which is predefined.
# The list of all predefined accounts are here: https://github.com/osmosis-labs/LocalOsmosis#accounts
# `code-id` is stored in the beaker state, local by default
beaker wasm store-code counter --signer-account signer --no-wasm-opt

# instantiate counter contract
# with instantiate msg: '{ "count": 0 }'
beaker wasm instantiate counter --signer-account signer --raw '{ "count": 0 }' --network serenity
```

The flag --no-wasm-opt is skipping rust-optimizer for faster development iteration.

When deploy successful, code_id and contract_addres automatically write in `.beaker`. You can interact with contract through cli.

## Frontend
`Counter` template also come with frontend template. But in order to interact with it you need:

- [Keplr installed](https://www.keplr.app/) on your machine.
- [Keplr chain](https://jsfiddle.net/eledra/kc6yhLpz/) setup for network you want interact. In this guide, we use Serenity chain.
- Add your account to Keplr. You can revert account by import mnemonic into keplr wallet.  
- Config file environment. Default of the template has interact with osmosis. Just rewrite file env.
Now we are good to go! Let's dive in.

```bash
cd frontend
yarn && yarn dev
```

Then open http://localhost:3000/ in the browser.

