---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Simple Template
title: Simple Template
---
import {DocCard} from '@site/src/components/Cards/Cards.js';

<DocCard>
  <p>
    We will show you how to quickly deploy a sample template smart contract.
  </p>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#clone">Clone</a></li>
    <li><a href="#build">Build</a></li>
    <li><a href="#deploy">Deploy</a></li>
  </ul>
</DocCard>

### Create 
Clone and create the project form the git repository as shown below:
```bash
cargo generate --git https://github.com/CosmWasm/cw-template.git --branch 1.0-minimal --name PROJECT_NAME
```

### Build 
Go to the project folder and build the project with Cargo.
```bash
cargo wasm
```

To compile a much smaller bytecode, you can use the following command which tells the compiler to strip the unused parts of the code:
```bash
RUSTFLAGS='-C link-arg=-s' cargo wasm
```

The compilation should output a `.wasm` file having the same name with project in the following folder: `target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/`.
```
PROJECT_NAME.wasm
```

### Deploy
#### Upload contract source code to chain
The file we generated in the previous instruction is a wasm binary executable. To deploy, we need to upload the code to the blockchain. To do that you need to use a `store` transaction type. Once that is done you can download the bytecode and verify it.

Store the contract bytecode in the blockchain with the following command:
```bash
RES=$(wasmd tx wasm store target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/PROJECT_NAME.wasm --from wallet $TXFLAG -y --output json -b block)
```

* `wallet` is your aurad wallet name you want to use to send the transaction.
* `PROJECT_NAME` is the name you gave to the project.

:::tip
You can see the list of Codes that have been uploaded to the blockchain.
```bash
wasmd query wasm list-code $NOD
```
:::

Display the response of the transaction:
```bash
echo $RES
```

The response contains a Code Id of the uploaded wasm binary. The following is an easier way to get the Code Id from the response:
```bash
CODE_ID=$(echo $RES | jq -r '.logs[0].events[-1].attributes[0].value')
echo $CODE_ID
```

Let's see the list of contracts instantiated using the Code Id above.
```bash
wasmd query wasm list-contract-by-code $CODE_ID $NODE --output json
```

The response should be an empty list as we have not instantiated any contract yet.
```bash
{"contracts":[],"pagination":{"next_key":null,"total":"0"}}
```

Before we instantiate a contract with the Code Id and interact with it, let us check if the code stored on the blockchain is indeed the PROJECT_NAME.wasm binary we uploaded.
```bash
# Download the wasm binary from the chain and compare it to the original one
wasmd query wasm code $CODE_ID $NODE download.wasm
# The two binaries should be identical
diff target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/PROJECT_NAME.wasm download.wasm
```

#### Instantiating the Contract
We can now create an instance of the wasm contract. Following the instantiation, we can make queries and this time receive non-empty responses.
```bash
# Prepare the instantiation message
INIT='{"purchase_price":{"amount":"100","denom":"umlg"},"transfer_price":{"amount":"999","denom":"umlg"}}'

# Instantiate the contract
wasmd tx wasm instantiate $CODE_ID "$INIT" --from wallet --label "a project label" $TXFLAG -y --no-admin

# Check the contract details and account balance
wasmd query wasm list-contract-by-code $CODE_ID $NODE --output json
CONTRACT=$(wasmd query wasm list-contract-by-code $CODE_ID $NODE --output json | jq -r '.contracts[-1]')
echo $CONTRACT

# See the contract details
wasmd query wasm contract $CONTRACT $NODE
# Check the contract balance
wasmd query bank balances $CONTRACT $NODE

# Upon instantiation the cw_nameservice contract will store the instatiation message data in the contract's storage with the storage key "config".
# Query the entire contract state
wasmd query wasm contract-state all $CONTRACT $NODE