---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Counter
title: Counter Contract
---
import {DocCard} from '@site/src/components/Cards/Cards.js';

<DocCard>
  <p>
    We introduce counter which is a simple decentralized application(dApp) that stores a number and exposes methods to <code>increment</code>, <code>reset</code> and <code>query</code> it. 
  </p>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#create-counter-project">Create The Project</a></li>
    <li><a href="#build">Build</a></li>
    <li><a href="#deploy">Deploy</a></li>
  </ul>
</DocCard>

## Create Counter Project

In the [environment setup](../getting-started/env-setup) section we covered the installation of `Beaker`, a very useful toolchain. We will be using it here for this tutorial. You can also use `cargo generate` instead of following along, but we strongly suggest you use **beaker** instead.

To create the project, run the following command:

```bash
beaker new counter-dapp
```

This gives you 2 template options to choose from. For the sake of this tutorial, let's use the down arrow button to select `counter-example`. 

```
? 🤷   Which starting template would you like to use? ›
  minimal
❯ counter-example
```

This will generate new directory called `counter-dapp` which should come from [this template](https://github.com/osmosis-labs/beaker/tree/main/templates/project).

So what's in the template? Let's have a look at the generated project structure.

```bash
.
├── .beaker 
├── .cargo 
├── contracts
├── frontend
├── ts/sdk
├── .gitignore
├── Beaker.toml
└── Cargo.toml
```

Let's break down each file:

### `.beaker`
It contains information about smart-contract such as `code_id`, `addresses`, `label` for each network when you store smart-contract successfully. 
While the `state.json` file is there for mainnet and testnet state, state.local.json file is intended to use locally and being gitignored since its state will not make any sense on any other machine.

### `contracts/`
This is where smart contracts are stored. A single workspace can contain multiple contracts.

With the **counter-example** template, it should have the counter contract pregenerated. Besides this, you can scaffold many contracts in this folder by running this command:

```bash
beaker wasm new <contract_name>
```

### `frontend/`
This should be self explanatory, it's where frontend and contracts are stored.

With the **counter-example** template, it demonstrates how frontend apps can access deployed contract's info through `.beaker`. It does so by symlinking `.beaker` into the frontend directory, and since states in `.beaker` are in json format, javascript code can import and use them without any extra work.

With the **minimal** template, this directory does not exist, which means it does not assume your frontend choice. In that case, you might want to checkout `create-cosmos-app` for creating your frontend or just create one from scratch.

### `Beaker.toml`
All the project configuration needs to be specified here. Now let's have a look.

```toml
name = ''
gas_price = '0.025uaura'
gas_adjustment = 1.3
account_prefix = 'aura'
derivation_path = '''m/44'/118'/0'/0/0'''

[networks.serenity]
chain_id = 'auradev_1236-2'
network_variant = 'Shared'
grpc_endpoint = 'https://grpc.serenity.aura.network:9092'
rpc_endpoint = 'https://rpc.serenity.aura.network'

[accounts.signer]
mnemonic = 'your mnemonic'
```

You can check out the details of the configuration file [here](https://github.com/osmosis-labs/beaker/blob/main/docs/config/README.md). 

## Contract
The contract presents 2 methods: `execute` and `query`. These should be self-explanatory, but if not you can think of them as `write` and `read` type methods respectively.

### Deploy contract
For each network you want to store and instantiate the contracts to, you must specify them in the `Beaker.toml` file. You can copy the example configuration above for the purposes of this tutorial.

Now the contract can be deployed (build + store-code + instantiate) using the following command:
```bash
beaker wasm deploy counter --signer-account signer --no-wasm-opt --raw '{ "count": 0 }' --network serenity
```

What's happening here equivalent to the following command sequence:
```bash
# build .wasm file
# stored in `target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/<CONTRACT_NAME>.wasm`
# `--no-wasm-opt` is suitable for development, explained below
beaker wasm build --no-wasm-opt

# read .wasm in `target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/<CONTRACT_NAME>.wasm` due to `--no-wasm-opt` flag
# use `--signer-account test1` which is predefined.
# The list of all predefined accounts are here: https://github.com/osmosis-labs/LocalOsmosis#accounts
# `code-id` is stored in the beaker state, local by default
beaker wasm store-code counter --signer-account signer --no-wasm-opt --network serenity

# instantiate counter contract
# with instantiate msg: '{ "count": 0 }'
beaker wasm instantiate counter --signer-account signer --raw '{ "count": 0 }' --network serenity
```

The flag `--no-wasm-opt` is skipping rust-optimizer for faster development iteration, but for other uses, we recommend you use optimization since it reduces the bytecode size significantly.

When the deployment is successful, both the `code_id` and `contract_address` ara automatically added to the `.beaker` file. You can now interact with the contract via cli.

## Frontend
The `Counter` template also comes with a frontend template. But in order to interact with it you need:

- [Keplr installed](https://www.keplr.app/) on your machine.
- [Keplr chain](https://jsfiddle.net/eledra/kc6yhLpz/) setup for network you want interact. In this guide, we use Serenity chain.
- Have setup your wallet on Keplr. You can restore the account by importing your mnemonic into Keplr wallet.  
- Updated the environment configuration file (`counter-dapp/frontend/.env.test`) for running on Serenity testnet as shown below:

  ```
  NEXT_PUBLIC_NETWORK=serenity
  NEXT_PUBLIC_RPC_ENDPOINT="https://rpc.serenity.aura.network"
  NEXT_PUBLIC_CHAIN_ID=auradev_1236-2
  ```

After all of that is done, we can now start our dev frontend:

```bash
cd frontend
yarn && yarn dev
```

Then open `http://localhost:3000/` in the browser and that's it. You are now running a **CosmWasm** smart contract dapp on **Aura Serenity Testnet**. Congratulations, developer. Have Fun!

