---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Solidity to CosmWasm
title: Solidity to CosmWasm
---
import ContactUs from '@site/src/components/ContactUs/ContactUs.mdx';

In this section, we'll walk you through porting a simple Solidity smart contract
from the examples section in the official Solidity documentation to get you started on the concepts. 
We will use the [Safe Remote Purchase](https://docs.Soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.19/Solidity-by-example.html#safe-remote-purchase)
smart contract.


## Source Solidity Contract

The original contract is designed as an example of a safe way to sell something in a trustless
manner to anyone. It has its own **state variables**, **public methods**, **modifiers** and **events**.
In this example, both parties, seller and buyer, have to put twice the value of the item into the 
contract as escrow. Once the buyer confirms that they have received the item, they will receive half 
of their original deposit, and the seller will get three times the value (their deposit plus the value 
of te item). While this does not solve everything, it works as a good example of utility.

### State Variables 

The **state variables** include: `seller`, `buyer`, `value` and `state`. These will maintain its 
state in the contract unless modified. The first three are self-explanatory, but the last one can be 
a bit confusing. The `state` variable in the Solidity contract has an ambiguous name, since it is a 
state variable named "state". Nevertheless, it simply represents the current status of the contract i.e. 
`Created`, `Locked`, `Release` and `Inactive`. These helps us keep track of what is going on.

### Methods

For **write methods** we have: `constructor`, `abort`, `confirmPurchase`, `confirmReceived` and 
`refundSeller`. These are the main entry points of the contract and contain the logic for the 
transaction. Since this is a very simple contract, not much is required, and in fact, no arguments 
are used for any of the public methods.

Of course we also have our **read methods** which are created automatically as well when we declare our
public state variables.

### Events and errors

The events we have are `Aborted`, `PurchaseConfirmed`, `ItemReceived` and `SellerRefunded`. As for errors, we have `OnlyBuyer`, `OnlySeller`, `InvalidState` and `ValueNotEven`.

These are all empty logs since none of them contain any properties.

### Modifiers

Finally we have our modifiers. To keep this example simple, we will be using a simple condition on each required instance, since none of them are really required on this example.

## Key Differences

Normally when working with Solidity, you work on a single `.sol` file where you define everything: 
state variables, constants, modifiers, events, errors, interfaces, methods, etc. This can be a little 
messy and the usual workaround is having separate files according to your needs.

That workaround is similar to the CosmWasm structure. You start with a set of Rust `.rs` files, one for 
each specific purpose and can branch out if it helps readability and organization. The standard CosmWasm 
contract contains `contract.rs`, which is where the core logic and methods are. Then there is the 
`state.rs` file, which contains all your state variables. The `lib.rs` file which contains additional 
logic. The `error.rs` file which contains all your error handling. And finally the `msg.rs` file, which 
contains the structure of your arguments for execution or queries on methods.

It may sound a bit complicated at first, but it becomes second nature really quickly and results in much 
easier to read and analyze when compared to a large Solidity project.


## Creating CosmWasm Contract
We can create a new CosmWasm contract from a template easily so we can start writing code right away. 
To do so, go to your project desired directory and run the following:

```
cargo generate --git https://github.com/CosmWasm/cw-template.git --name PROJECT_NAME
```

This will create the bolierplate of a CosmWasm contract. Before beginning, we should add the following 
dependency to our `Cargo.toml` file, as we will be using it later.

```toml title="Cargo.toml"
[dependencies]
cw-utils = "0.13"
```

Have a look around so you can get familiar with the structure and on the next section we will begin by declaring our state variables.

## State Variables

Let's begin with the state variables. In the Solidity contract, we have only four state variables to 
keep track of the purchase shown below:

```Solidity
uint public value;
address payable public seller;
address payable public buyer;

enum State { Created, Locked, Release, Inactive }
// The state variable has a default value of the first member, `State.created`
State public state;
```

Now we need to create our state variables on the CosmWasm contract. To do so, you can choose to do it 
in several ways. In this case I will use a struct to keep it simple.

Starting with `value`, we can store it as a *u128* so we just keep track of the amount. Remember that the
variable `value` in the context of this contract represents the value of the item, not the value of any 
transfer or current holdings of the contract.

Both `seller` and `buyer` will be *Addr* type of course, and for the original `state` variable used in 
the Solidity contract, let's use `status` instead, so it's clearer. 

Finally, for `status` we will use an *enum* type just as the original.

So, first let's import all we will need into the `state.rs` file: *Addr* type, **cw_serde** and *Item*.

```rust title="src/state.rs"
use cosmwasm_std::Addr; // address type
use cosmwasm_schema::cw_serde;  // attribute macro to (de)serialize and make schemas
use cw_storage_plus::Item; // analog of Singletons for storage
```

Then let's define the `status` attribute in the struct we will use for keeping our state variables. This 
simply defines what stage of the purchase the contract is in.

```rust title="src/state.rs"
#[cw_serde]
pub enum Status {
    Created,
    Locked,
    Release,
    Inactive,
}
```

Now let's define the core state variable of the contract. I will name it `ContractState` to keep it clear.
This contains all of our variables, `value`, `seller`, `buyer` and `status`.

```rust title="src/state.rs"
#[cw_serde]
pub struct ContractState {
    pub value: u128,
    pub seller: Addr,
    pub buyer: Addr,
    pub status: Status,
}
```

As you can see, the type of the `status` property in `ContractState` is `Status`, the *enum* we defined 
earlier.

So, now we have a *struct* named `ContractState` which we will be accessing, however, a *struct* is not 
an object we can read and write to the state as it is, since the state is accessed via `deps` (will talk 
about it more later), which is why we need to define it as an constant item as such:

```rust title="src/state.rs"
pub const CONTRACT_STATE: Item<ContractState> = Item::new("contract_state");

```

The declaration `const` can be a bit tricky here. The constant is not keeping the state itself, as it is
stored in the blockchain, but it is not a constant value, like the tag would suggest. Instead, it merely 
means that it is a contant key to access a variable, since state storage in this context works like a 
big dictionary of key-stored values. In this case, we store a new instance of an `Item` of `ContractState` 
to `"contract_state"`.

And just like that, we have defined the state in a simple to access variable for easy referencing. Let's 
continue to the next part.


## Events and Errors

In the Solidity source contract we have Events and Errors declared for the common errors we expect and 
the events on any transactions for proper logging to the blockchain. This is what they look like:

```Solidity
... 
/// Only the buyer can call this function.
error OnlyBuyer();
/// Only the seller can call this function.
error OnlySeller();
/// The function cannot be called at the current state.
error InvalidState();
/// The provided value has to be even.
error ValueNotEven();

...

event Aborted();
event PurchaseConfirmed();
event ItemReceived();
event SellerRefunded();
...
```

In CosmWasm we will use `error.rs` to declare our errors, but we will not be using events in the same way. 
To handle events in CosmWasm, we will emit them straight on the methods that require them as `Response`. 

First of course, we import our dependencies:

```rust  title="src/error.rs"
use cosmwasm_std::StdError;
use cw_utils::PaymentError;
use thiserror::Error;
```

Both `StdError` and `Error` are common imports, and we use `PaymentError` for a utility we will use for 
handling the value in the contract methods. We could directly specify `PaymentError` later on the methods 
itself, but it's cleaner to implement it on our default `ContractError` object.

```rust title="src/error.rs"
#[derive(Error, Debug)]
pub enum ContractError {
    #[error("{0}")]
    Std(#[from] StdError),

    #[error("PaymentError")]
    PaymentError(PaymentError),

    #[error("Only the buyer can call this function")]
    OnlyBuyer,

    #[error("Only the seller can call this function")]
    OnlySeller,

    #[error("The function cannot be called at the current state")]
    InvalidState,

    #[error("The provided value has to be even")]
    ValueNotEven,
}

impl From<PaymentError> for ContractError {
    fn from(err: PaymentError) -> Self {
        ContractError::PaymentError(err)
    }
}
```

That is all we need to do on the `error.rs` file. By declaing our errors in this manner, we can specify 
the return types on our functions using this object only.


## Messages

In Solidity, our public methods are exposed just by declaring the functions as public, but with CosmWasm, 
we need to declare the message structure and what kind of message it will be, and those will act as the 
declaration of all entry points. You can think of this as the call signature in Solidity.

There are three main types of messages: `instantiate`, `execute`, and `query`. There are of course other 
different types of messages such as `sudo` or `migrate`, but we will not talk about them here since it's 
not relevant for the example.

In this context we will only be using the main three, so let's explain what thay are:
- `instantiate` - This is what you would know as a constructor in Solidity. It can only be called once at 
initialization.
- `execute` - Execute messages are the equivalent of a write function in Solidity. They can modify the 
contract state and is what we use to perform any actions.
- `query` - Just as the name says, this will be messages requesting data from the contract state. They 
are read only and cannot modify the contract state.

For our case, this is quite simple, since we have very little methods and queries. This is what our 
messages should look like:

```rust title="src/msg.rs"
use cosmwasm_schema::{cw_serde, QueryResponses};
use cosmwasm_std::Addr;

#[cw_serde]
pub enum ExecuteMsg {
    ConfirmPurchase {},
    ConfirmReceived {},
    RefundSeller {},
    AbortPurchase {},
}

#[cw_serde]
pub struct StateResponse {
    pub state: ContractState,
}

#[cw_serde]
#[derive(QueryResponses)]
pub enum QueryMsg {
    #[returns(StateResponse)]
    GetState {}
}

#[cw_serde]
pub struct InstantiateMsg {
}

```

You can see we have all three message types, but we also have a struct named `StateResponse`. This struct 
will be used as the return type of the only query we will use: `get_state` so we need to specify it as 
a `QueryResponse`.

Let's continue to the final section for building the contract.


## Methods

Now comes the longest part, the **public methods** of the contract. These will contain the logic behind 
the **messages** we declared earlier.

Here we will need to import some common imports as well as our **messages**, **errors** and 
**state variables** that we declared earlier to be able to use them. We will go on each method 
one by one to fully understand everything done. 

First step as always is importing our dependencies. In this case, we will be using the following:

```rust title="src/contract.rs"
use cosmwasm_std::entry_point;  // used to specify entry points of our contract
use cw_utils::must_pay;  // this utility helps us with handling values we expect
// mostly standard imports
use cosmwasm_std::{coins, to_binary, Addr, BankMsg, Binary, Deps, DepsMut, Env, MessageInfo, Response, StdResult, StdError};
// these below are our messages, errors and state we defined earlier
use crate::error::ContractError;
use crate::msg::{ExecuteMsg, InstantiateMsg, QueryMsg};
use crate::state::{CONTRACT_STATE, ContractState, Status};
```

Let's now work on the `InstantiateMsg`.

### Instantiate
The `instantiate` is the message we will use to call for instantiating a stored contract in the 
blockchain. Unlike EVMs, there are two steps if you wanna deploy a new contract. 

First you need to deploy it or store the bytecode in the blockchain. This is a type of transaction called
`store`, in which we will only push the bytecode of our contract to the blockchain. This will have an ID 
which we will use to execute the next transaction: `instantiate`. The advantage of doing this is that you 
can create multiple contracts from the same bytecode.

Anyway, let's get back to the `InstantiateMsg`. In the Solidity version we don't take any arguments, so 
we will do the same. The `seller` will be the one instantiating the contract and the `value` will be the 
coin value sent to the contract.

First let's get into how an entry point function is defined:

```rust
#[cfg_attr(not(feature = "library"), entry_point)]
pub fn instantiate(
    deps: DepsMut,
    env: Env,
    info: MessageInfo,
    msg: InstantiateMsg,
) -> Result<Response, ContractError> {
    // 
}
```

The first line is an attribute macro to mark the entry point of a contract for instantiate messages. We 
will use one on each type of message of course, but not on all functions. That is for the `entry_point`, 
but as for the `cfg_attr(not(feature = "library"), ...)` part, it is a conditional attribute that tells the
Rust compiler to include this function in the binary output of the contract, but only if the library 
feature is not enabled.

The arguments a function takes of course depends on what will be used, however, when marking entry_points
we need to use `deps`, `env`, `info` and `msg`. Even if not being used, which in that case, you should only
prepend it with an underscore "\_". 

Now that that part is clear, here is the complete function:

```rust title="src/contract.rs"
#[cfg_attr(not(feature = "library"), entry_point)]
pub fn instantiate(
    deps: DepsMut,
    _env: Env,
    info: MessageInfo,
    _msg: InstantiateMsg,
) -> Result<Response, ContractError> {

    // we speficy we are expecting only coins of denomination ueaura and 
    // this returns a u128 value
    let value = must_pay(&info, "ueaura")?.u128();

    // we make sure the value is divisible by 2 as in the original contract
    if value % 2u128 != 0u128 {
        // return the error ValueNotEven we declared if not divisible by 2
        return Err(ContractError::ValueNotEven);
    }

    // declare the initial state
    let state = ContractState {
        value: value / 2u128,  // value of the item will be half the funds for escrow
        seller: info.sender,  // this is equivaluent to msg.sender in Solidity, 
        // but with info here, msg is used for the arguments of the tx
        buyer: Addr::unchecked("aura0"),  // no buyer yet
        status: Status::Created,  // Created status
    };

    // save to state the ContractState variable we just declared
    CONTRACT_STATE.save(deps.storage, &state)?;

    // we return no events, just an empty Response
    Ok(Response::default())
}
```

The instantiate method works just as the original Solidity contract, checking that the value is even (only
accepting ETH or in this case EAURA (since we're working on Aura Euphoria test network), and storing the 
message sender as the `seller`.

:::note
We are using *ueaura* here instead of *eaura* as coin denomination since *ueaura* is the smallest unit 
(10^-6). Therefore, all transactions will expect *ueaura*.
:::

Easy, right? Alright now for the `execute` part.

### Execute

Here we will use our previously declared execute type messages. There will be a single entry point and 
one function for each one in the original Solidity contract.

#### ExecuteMsg Entry Point

For `execute`, let's first declare our `entry_point`. In here we will only redirect to the matching
`ExecuteMsg` to the corresponding handler function. And to that function, we will pass the contract 
state as an argument, so that we don't have to call for it at all functions individually. We also 
need to pass the required arguments to each, whether it will be `deps`, `env`, `info` or `msg`.

For this contract, we do not take any input arguments for any callable `execute` function, so we only
use the `msg` argument to match the current messge to the correct function.

```rust title="src/contract.rs"
#[cfg_attr(not(feature = "library"), entry_point)]
pub fn execute(
    deps: DepsMut,
    env: Env,
    info: MessageInfo,
    msg: ExecuteMsg,
) -> Result<Response, ContractError> {
    // load the state from deps 
    let state = CONTRACT_STATE.load(deps.storage)?.clone();
    // match the received msg to the handler function
    match msg {
        ExecuteMsg::ConfirmPurchase {} => confirm_purchase(deps, info, state),
        ExecuteMsg::ConfirmReceived {} => confirm_received(deps, info, state),
        ExecuteMsg::RefundSeller {} => refund_seller(deps, info, state),
        ExecuteMsg::AbortPurchase {} => abort_purchase(deps, env, info, state),
    }
}
```

This single entry point for execution type messages makes it much more readable and easy to audit.

#### Confirm Purchase

Now let's check out each function. Starting with `confirm_purchase`, we don't need to do much here but to 
handle the funds sent to the contract and verify it's correct. Anyone can call this function, so first 
come first serve.

```rust title="src/contract.rs"
pub fn confirm_purchase(
    deps: DepsMut,
    info: MessageInfo,
    mut state: ContractState, 
) -> Result<Response, ContractError> {
    // emit an error if the contract is not in the Created state
    if state.status != Status::Created {
        return Err(ContractError::InvalidState);
    }
    // ensure the funds are correct or return an error
    let value = must_pay(&info, "ueaura")?.u128();
    // buyer must pay twice the value for escrow
    if value != state.value * 2u128 {
        return Err(ContractError::Std(StdError::generic_err("Incorrect funds sent")));
    }

    // modify the status to Locked once the requirements are met
    state.status = Status::Locked;
    // set the seller to the caller
    state.buyer = info.sender;
    // save the state of the contract
    CONTRACT_STATE.save(deps.storage, &state)?;

    // emit the current status and the action performed
    Ok(
        Response::new()
        .add_attribute("action", "purchase_confirmed")
        .add_attribute("status", "Locked")
    )
}
```

As you can see, pretty straight forward. Same behaviour as the original contract. The event is emitted as
an attribute of the `Response` with the key `status`. A bit different than Solidity but more convenient if you ask me.

#### Confirm Received

Now let's work on the next function: `confirm_received`. This is where only the `buyer` can confirm the item
has been received and the purchase can be completed, and it can only be called if the current `status` of 
the contract is `Locked`.

After all checks have passed, we can then return item value back to the buyer, keeping the other half as payment of course.

```rust title="src/contract.rs"
pub fn confirm_received(
    deps: DepsMut,
    info: MessageInfo,
    mut state: ContractState,
) -> Result<Response, ContractError> {
    // emit an error if caller is not buyer
    if state.buyer != info.sender {
        return Err(ContractError::OnlyBuyer);
    }
    // emit an error if contract is not in the Locked state
    if state.status != Status::Locked {
        return Err(ContractError::InvalidState);
    }

    // modify the status to Release once the requirements are met
    state.status = Status::Release;
    // save the state of the contract
    CONTRACT_STATE.save(deps.storage, &state)?;

    // refund the value of the item to the buyer
    let response = BankMsg::Send {
        to_address: state.buyer.to_string(),
        amount: coins(state.value, "ueaura"),
    };

    // emit the current status and the action performed, as well as 
    // the response of the BankMsg call
    Ok(
        Response::new()
        .add_message(response)
        .add_attribute("action", "item_received")
        .add_attribute("status", "Release")
    )
}
```

Here we use `BankMsg::Send` to send the value of the item back to the buyer, since the purchase is now 
complete. The only step left for the contract to be finalized in the `Inactive` status is for the seller
to call the method `refund_seller` to collect their original funds as well as the funds the buyer sent 
for the value of the item.

Then let's continue to that. We're almost done!

#### Refund Seller

To completely finalize the contract we just need to allow the seller to claim the funds of the contract
which should include their original deposit plus the payment for the item. After that, we are done!

First we need to check that the current status of the contract mathces and allow only the seller to call
this function. After that we just modify and save the state and send the funds to the seller and that's it.

```rust title="src/contract.rs"
pub fn refund_seller(
    deps: DepsMut,
    info: MessageInfo,
    mut state: ContractState,
) -> Result<Response, ContractError> {
    // emit an error if contract is not in the Release state
    if state.status != Status::Release {
        return Err(ContractError::InvalidState);
    }
    // emit an error if caller is not seller
    if info.sender != state.seller {
        return Err(ContractError::OnlySeller);
    }

    // modify the state.status to Inactive
    state.status = Status::Inactive;
    // save the contract state
    CONTRACT_STATE.save(deps.storage, &state)?;

    // send three times the value of the item to the seller 
    let response = BankMsg::Send {
        to_address: state.seller.to_string(),
        amount: coins(state.value * 3u128, "ueaura"),
    };

    // emit the current status and the aciton performed as well as
    // the reponse of the BankMsg call
    Ok(
        Response::new()
        .add_message(response)
        .add_attribute("action", "seller_refunded")
        .add_attribute("status", "Inactive")
    )
}
```

Once the seller successfully calls this, the contract will be in the `Inactive` state and it will be
finished. 

#### Abort Purchase

For the final function, `abort_purchase`, we need to send the funds back to the seller for their original
deposit.

This is a simple function which just verifies the caller and status of the contract once again, and 
terminates the contract by setting the status to `Inactive`.

```rust title="src/contract.rs"
fn abort_purchase(
    deps: DepsMut, 
    env: Env,
    info: MessageInfo,
    mut state: ContractState
) -> Result<Response, ContractError> {
    // emit an error if the contract state is not Created
    if state.status != Status::Created {
        return Err(ContractError::InvalidState);
    }
    // emit an error if caller is not seller
    if info.sender != state.seller {
        return Err(ContractError::OnlySeller);
    }

    // terminate the contract by setting the state to inactive and saving
    state.status = Status::Inactive;
    CONTRACT_STATE.save(deps.storage, &state)?;

    // query the whole balance of the contract and send to seller
    let balance = deps.querier.query_balance(env.contract.address, "ueaura")?;
    let response = BankMsg::Send {
        to_address: state.seller.to_string(),
        amount: coins(balance.amount.u128(), "ueaura"),
    };

    // emit the current status and the aciton performed as well as
    // the reponse of the BankMsg call
    Ok(
        Response::new()
        .add_message(response)
        .add_attribute("action", "aborted")
        .add_attribute("status", "Inactive")
    )
}
```

And that's it! Our contract is finished. We could also add tests on it to ensure everything works as it
should, just as any properly built code, but we will skip that for this tutorial.

There is one more step we need to take care of in the `contract.rs` file: queries.

### Query

In the original Solidity contract we don't explicitly delcare any read methods, but when declaring a public
state variable, the compiler automatically creates one for it. This does not happen in CosmWasm, we need
to explicitly declare our queries.

In this case we only need one, since we declared the state of the contract as a single struct. This makes it much more easier for both readability of code and usage.

```rust
#[cfg_attr(not(feature = "library"), entry_point)]
pub fn query(deps: Deps, _env: Env, msg: QueryMsg) -> StdResult<Binary> {
    match msg {
        QueryMsg::GetState {} => to_binary(&CONTRACT_STATE.load(deps.storage)?),
    }
}
```

We only need to match the `query` type message to one that matches our `QueryMsg` we declared and return
the state of the contract in it.

Can't get any simpler than that, right? Now we are completely done! Our contract is ready for compiling 
and storing it in the blockchain to instantiate it.


## Deploying

To deploy our contract we need to compile it first. To do so, you can run the following in your source dir:
```
rustup default stable
RUSTFLAGS='-C link-arg=-s' cargo wasm
```

After it's complete, we can execute a `store` transaction. To do so, you can run:
```
RES=$(aurad tx wasm store ./target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/safe-remote-purchase.wasm --from YOUR_WALLET_NAME $TXFLAG --output json)
```

Replacing of course "YOUR_WALLET_NAME" with your actual wallet name you crated in `aurad`. You can run 
`echo $RES` to view the transaction hash. If you query that, you should see the contract `CODE_ID`.

Then, once the bytecode is stored, we can instantiate the contract! To do so, we must execute
an `instantiate` transaction with the `CODE_ID` of your stored contract bytecode, and with an empty
JSON object `{}` since there are no arguments in our `InstantiateMsg`, however we do need to specify the 
funds to be sent to it and a label to easily identify.

You run it like shown below:
```
aurad tx wasm instantiate CODE_ID {} --from YOUR_WALLET_NAME --label "safe-remote-purchase" --no-admin --amount 4000ueaura
```

<ContactUs/>
