<<<<<<<< HEAD:docs/tutorials/Tutorials/Non Fungible Tokens/3.Begin.md
# Create cw721-dapp project
========
# State
>>>>>>>> 27e0820c94650c35c8e6f0b1165f282e08a2599c:docs/tutorials/zero-to-hero-tutorial/7.State.md

This article will guide you in setting up an NFT smart contract, and show you how to build, test and deploy your NFT contract by using beaker toolchain. You can clone source code at [cw721-repository](https://github.com/aura-nw/tutorial_source/tree/main/cw721-dapp).

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial successfully, you'll need:

- Beaker toolchain.
- An Aura account.
- NFT Storage Account.

I think you familiar with `Beaker` and know how to create An Aura account. There are a new thing i want introduce, it is NFT Storage. Instead of store NFT image in public storage such like Google Drive, .. we will use third party to store NFT image distributive is [IPFS](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/what-is-ipfs/). You can use free service such like [NFT Storage](https://nft.storage/#getting-started). 

## Create project

Yeahhh, it's finally time to start coding our main contract! Let's use beaker to create `cw721-dapp`:

```sh
beaker new cw721-dapp
````

Now we have basically project. But there are nothing contract at here. Just create our contract:

```sh
beaker wasm new cw721-factory
````

Now, source code for this contract can be find in `contracts/cw721-factory`. We will start in the `src/state.rs` file. Upon opening it you should see code like the following:

```rust
use schemars::JsonSchema;
use serde::{Deserialize, Serialize};

use cosmwasm_std::Addr;
use cw_storage_plus::Item;

#[derive(Serialize, Deserialize, Clone, Debug, PartialEq, JsonSchema)]
pub struct State {
    pub count: i32,
    pub owner: Addr,
}

pub const STATE: Item<State> = Item::new("state");
```

Let's talk through this section by section.

The first 5 lines of code are importing other structs, interfaces and functions from other packages. To give a quick overview without getting bogged down too much:

-   JsonSchema allows structs to be serialized and deserialized to and from JSON.
-   Deserialize and Serialize provide the serialization described above.
-   Addr is a Cosmos address, under the hood it is simply a string.
-   Item is a helper provided by storage plus. It effectively means we can store an item in storage. In this case, the `STATE` variable is an `Item` that stores a singular `State` struct.

We want to make some changes to this, let's rename it accordingly. I prefer our global state to be called `Config` as it is the configuration of our contract. Let's do this now and remove the `count` and `owner` variable from the struct and rename it to `Config`. Let's also rename `STATE` to `CONFIG`.

It should look like this:

```rust
use schemars::JsonSchema;
use serde::{Deserialize, Serialize};

use cosmwasm_std::Addr;
use cw_storage_plus::Item;

#[derive(Serialize, Deserialize, Clone, Debug, PartialEq, JsonSchema)]
pub struct Config {

}

pub const CONFIG: Item<Config> = Item::new("config");
```

Now let's think about what global configs we want, we probably want an NFT Minter Contract that can mint some amazing NFTs for buyer with fixed price fee. 
Let's add some necessary fields representing the configuration parameters of our NFT minter contract.

```rust
// Previous code omitted
#[derive(Serialize, Deserialize, Clone, Debug, PartialEq, JsonSchema)]
pub struct Config {
    pub owner: Addr,
    pub cw20_address: Addr,
    pub cw721_address: Option<Addr>,
    pub max_tokens: u32,
    pub unit_price: Uint128,
    pub name: String,
    pub symbol: String,
    pub token_uri: String,
    pub extension: Extension,
    pub unused_token_id: u32,
}
// Following code omitted
```

Now I'll explain to you about the above data fields.

- The `owner` field specifies which account is the owner of your contract.
- The `cw20_address` field specifies the address of which cw20 token contract used as a payment method. We will use the contract deployed in chapter 3.
- The `cw721_address` field specifies the address of the cw721 token contract we will use. But the cw721 is created dynamically during contract instantiation, so there's no need to instantiate a cw721 token contract separately.
- The `max_tokens` field specifies the maximum mint token amount of this contract.
- The `unit_price` field specifies the unit price for each NFT.
- `name`, `symbol`, `token_uri`, `extension` fields specifies the NFT token info and metadata. Here, the `extension` is of type `cw721_base::Extension`. So you need to add a line like the following in the declaration of the library used by Rust.

```rust
use cw721_base::Extension;
```

Also need to declare the use of cw721-base as a dependency in Cargo.toml. Open `Cargo.toml` and add this to the dependencies:

```rust cargo.toml focus=3:4
# ...

[dependencies]
cw721-base = { version = "0.15.0", features = ["library"] }
cw-utils = "0.12.1"

# ...
```

- The `unused_token_id` field is used to store the total number of NFT tokens have been minted. The reason it is named 'unused_token_id' is because, when executing the mint action, the NFT token will be assigned a token_id equal to the value of the current 'unused_token_id'.

Ok, here we have done all the necessary work. In the next chapter, we will move on to working in the `src/contract.rs`.

**Disclaimer!** 

If you currently run any command such as `cargo test` or `cargo wasm` the build will break! Don't worry this is expected as we have modified our storage code without changing code on the contract side.

We'll fix this in next chapters.

