---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Intro to CW721
title: Intro to CW721 Tokens (NFTs)
---
import {DocCard} from '@site/src/components/Cards/Cards.js';

<DocCard>
  <p>
    We will briefly introduce the base concepts of an NFT in Aura and give you a brief introduction to what will we build.
  </p>
  <p>
  NFT is a very hot keyword on search engines in recent years on the topic of digital assets.  It is a fun fact that many of us know NFT before we know anything about blockchain.
  </p>
</DocCard>


## So what exactly is NFT? 
NFTs (non-fungible tokens) are unique cryptographic tokens that exist on a blockchain and cannot be replicated. NFTs can represent real-world items like artwork and real estate. "Tokenizing" these real-world tangible assets makes buying, selling, and trading them more efficient while reducing the probability of fraud.

NFTs are not stored in the user's wallet, instead, each NFT lives in a NFT contract. The NFT contract works as a bookkeeper, this is: it is in charge of handling the creation, storage and transfers of NFTs.

Many other blockchains have added or planned to add support for NFTs. ERC-721 was the first standard for representing non-fungible digital assets on the Ethereum blockchain.

## So what is CW721?
In Cosmwasm, in order for a contract to be considered a NFT-contract it has to follow the CW721 specification.

CW721 is a specification for non-fungible tokens based on CosmWasm. The name and design is based on Ethereum's ERC721 standard, with some enhancements. The types in here can be imported by contracts that wish to implement this spec, or by contracts that call to any standard CW721 contract.

This short article is intended as a brief introduction for the reader to understand what NFT is and to know about the CW721 standard.  If you want to read it in more detail, refer to the repo [CW721 spec][cw721-spec] on Github.

[cw721-spec]: https://github.com/CosmWasm/cw-nfts/blob/main/packages/cw721/README.md

## What will we build
In this series, we will create cw721-dapp project using `Beaker` toolchain. 

Basically, we will store and instantiate CW721 contract then we can call contract address to create NFT. But it has one problem:

If you want generate many NFTs, you must deploy the same smart contract. Let's imagine you want to generate 1,000,000 NFTs, you must do the same actions to do so. So how do we resolve this problem? We will build a cw721 factory contract, and we will use the cw721-base contract to create an instance. So you only need deploy the factory contract one time, and instantiate a new instance of this contract. Then you can interact with this contract instance to create your own NFT.

Since we learned how to deploy a cw-20 token on the previous section, we will now create a fixed-price-nft contract that allows users to pay in cw-20 tokens to purchase a NFT.