# Instantiating a Contract
When contracts are stored on the chain they must be instantiated. I cover storing contracts on a chain in a later section. Instantiating a contract is like creating an object in other languages, however, it is achieved by a special message. This message is an `InstantiateMsg` located under `src/lib.rs`.
Let's add something to it!

## The InstantiateMsg
When instantiating our NFT contract, we need to specify most of the fields in the `Config` struct defined in the `State` chapter.

Go to file `src/msg.rs` and modify `InstantiateMsg` looks like this:
```rust title=src/msg.rs
#[derive(Serialize, Deserialize, Clone, Debug, PartialEq, JsonSchema)]
#[serde(rename_all = "snake_case")]
pub struct InstantiateMsg {
    pub owner: Addr,
    pub max_tokens: u32,
    pub unit_price: Uint128,
    pub name: String,
    pub symbol: String,
    pub token_code_id: u64,
    pub cw20_address: Addr,
    pub token_uri: String,
    pub extension: Extension,
}
```

The mission of these fields are explained in the previous chapter. There is only one field to specify, it is `token_code_id`. We already know that, to be able to deploy a contract, we need to first store the code on the chain, and that code will be given a code_id. `token_code_id` in here will be the code_id of the `cw721_base` contract, which we will store on the chain to use for this contract.
In above msg, we use `serde` attribute. It's a framework for serializing and deserializing Rust data structures efficiently and generically. We use it to rename all the fields (if this is a struct) or variants (if this is an enum) according to the given case convention. When you generate schema of project, all parameters will be write in `snake_case` type. 

## Instantiation
The instantiation code is implemented in `src/contract.rs`:
```rust title=src/contract.rs
const CONTRACT_NAME: &str = "crates.io:aura-nft";
const CONTRACT_VERSION: &str = env!("CARGO_PKG_VERSION");

const INSTANTIATE_TOKEN_REPLY_ID: u64 = 1;

#[cfg_attr(not(feature = "library"), entry_point)]
pub fn instantiate(
    deps: DepsMut,
    env: Env,
    info: MessageInfo,
    msg: InstantiateMsg,
) -> Result<Response, ContractError> {
    set_contract_version(deps.storage, CONTRACT_NAME, CONTRACT_VERSION)?;

    if msg.unit_price == Uint128::new(0) {
        return Err(ContractError::InvalidUnitPrice {});
    }

    if msg.max_tokens == 0 {
        return Err(ContractError::InvalidMaxTokens {});
    }

    let config = Config {
        cw721_address: None,
        cw20_address: msg.cw20_address,
        unit_price: msg.unit_price,
        max_tokens: msg.max_tokens,
        owner: info.sender,
        name: msg.name.clone(),
        symbol: msg.symbol.clone(),
        token_uri: msg.token_uri.clone(),
        extension: msg.extension.clone(),
        unused_token_id: 0,
    };

    CONFIG.save(deps.storage, &config)?;

    let sub_msg: Vec<SubMsg> = vec![SubMsg {
        msg: WasmMsg::Instantiate {
            code_id: msg.token_code_id,
            msg: to_binary(&Cw721InstantiateMsg {
                name: msg.name.clone(),
                symbol: msg.symbol,
                minter: env.contract.address.to_string(),
            })?,
            funds: vec![],
            admin: None,
            label: String::from("Instantiate fixed price NFT contract"),
        }
        .into(),
        id: INSTANTIATE_TOKEN_REPLY_ID,
        gas_limit: None,
        reply_on: ReplyOn::Success,
    }];

    Ok(Response::new().add_submessages(sub_msg))
}

// Reply callback triggered from cw721 contract instantiation
#[cfg_attr(not(feature = "library"), entry_point)]
pub fn reply(deps: DepsMut, _env: Env, msg: Reply) -> Result<Response, ContractError> {
    let mut config: Config = CONFIG.load(deps.storage)?;

    if config.cw721_address != None {
        return Err(ContractError::Cw721AlreadyLinked {});
    }

    if msg.id != INSTANTIATE_TOKEN_REPLY_ID {
        return Err(ContractError::InvalidTokenReplyId {});
    }

    let reply = parse_reply_instantiate_data(msg).unwrap();
    config.cw721_address = Addr::unchecked(reply.contract_address).into();
    CONFIG.save(deps.storage, &config)?;

    Ok(Response::new())
}
```

Alright, that's a lot of code. Let's talk you through it step by step.

You can see the instantiate has 4 arguments:
- `deps` - The dependencies, this contains your contract storage, the ability to query other contracts and balances, and some API functionality.
- `env` - The environment, contains contract information such as its address, block information such as current height and time, as well as some optional transaction info.
- `info` - Message metadata, contains the sender of the message (`Addr`) and the funds sent with it a `Vec<Coin>`.
- `msg` - The `InstantiateMsg` you define in `src/msg.rs`.

In the first line, `set_contract_version` function uses a standard called `cw2`, it allows contracts to store version and name as you look at.

```rust
set_contract_version(deps.storage, CONTRACT_NAME, CONTRACT_VERSION)?;
```

The next two `if` statements is the logic to validate the input of two `InstantiateMsg` fields: `unit_price` and `max_tokens`. 

```rust
if msg.unit_price == Uint128::new(0) {
    return Err(ContractError::InvalidUnitPrice {});
}

if msg.max_tokens == 0 {
    return Err(ContractError::InvalidMaxTokens {});
}
```

If `unit_price` (the price to mint NFT) or `max_tokens` (the maximum number of NFTs that can be minted) equal to zero, our `instantiate` function will return the following 2 errors respectively: `InvalidUnitPrice` and `InvalidMaxTokens`. They are defined in `src/error.rs`:

```rust
pub enum ContractError {

    // Previous code omitted

    #[error("InvalidUnitPrice")]
    InvalidUnitPrice {},

    #[error("InvalidMaxTokens")]
    InvalidMaxTokens {},

    // Following code omitted
}
```

The above two if statements you will often see in other functions later. Because checking the input condition of the data is very important.

Ok, the next line creates a `Config` struct which was defined in the State chapter. And you can see, we have to use `clone()` in some fields to avoid moving values.

The line following that stores it in our `CONFIG` storage. (Ensure you have imported `CONFIG` from `state.rs`). It does this by calling it with `deps.storage` which is our contracts storage and giving it the address of our newly created config variable. It does this by preceding it with the `&` character.

Below the save `CONFIG` statement, we will define a `sub_msg` variable.  Because there are new concepts here, I separate them into a section.

### Submessage

```rust
let sub_msg: Vec<SubMsg> = vec![SubMsg {
        msg: WasmMsg::Instantiate {
            code_id: msg.token_code_id,
            msg: to_binary(&Cw721InstantiateMsg {
                name: msg.name.clone(),
                symbol: msg.symbol,
                minter: env.contract.address.to_string(),
            })?,
            funds: vec![],
            admin: None,
            label: String::from("Instantiate fixed price NFT contract"),
        }
        .into(),
        id: INSTANTIATE_TOKEN_REPLY_ID,
        gas_limit: None,
        reply_on: ReplyOn::Success,
    }];
```

As mentioned above, we use `token_code_id` field to call the initialization of a contract from previously uploaded Wasm code with the corresponding code_id. This can be done by sending a message of `WasmMsg::Instantiate` type. But we wanna get the result of the message sent from our smart contract (address of new contract), so we need to dispatch a [sub message][Submessage].

The variable `sub_msg` here is defined as a vector containing `SubMsg` (sub message). Of course it's possible to define it as just a single `SubMsg`, but maybe in the future you want to send another SubMsg, so it's better to define it as a vector of `SubMsg`. So what's inside a SubMsg?

- `msg`: is message to be sent. In our case, it is a `WasmMsg::Instantiate`
- `id`: is an arbitrary reply_ID chosen by the contract that will be used to handle the reply. This is typically used to match `Reply`s in the `reply` entry point to the submessage. Here, we use `INSTANTIATE_TOKEN_REPLY_ID` is the SubMsg id.
- `gas_limit`: is gas limit for the submessage.
- `reply_on`: is a flag to determine when the reply should be sent. Submessages offer different options for the other contract to provide a reply. There are four reply options (`Always`, `Error`, `Success`, `Never`) you can choose and they are defined in `ReplyOn` enum. Here, we use ReplyOn::Success to only callback if `SubMsg` was successful, no callback on error case.

Next, we will learn about `WasmMsg::Instantiate` and its fields. `WasmMsg::Instantiate` is used to instantiate a new contracts from previously uploaded Wasm code. 

- sender is the actor that signed the messages, and is automatically filled with the current contract’s address.
- `code_id` is the reference to the stored WASM code.
- `funds` is coins amount that are transferred to the contract on instantiation.
- `admin` is an optional address that can execute migrations.
- `label` is optional metadata to be stored with a contract instance.

Finally, the last line of the `instantiate` function:

```rust
Ok(Response::new().add_submessages(sub_msg))
```

The final line is our return line indicated not include `;`. This returns a success using the Ok and Result structure of `Response` type. `Response` is a response of a contract entry point, such as `instantiate`, `execute`, `reply` or `migrate`. Within the Ok structure, we create a response using various builder methods. We use `add_submessages` to add bulks explicit SubMsg structs to the list of messages to process.

## Handling a reply

In order to handle the reply from the other contract, the calling contract must implement a new entry point. Here, our contract want to know cw721 contract (this contract link to our contract) address after cw721 contract instantiation.

```rust
#[cfg_attr(not(feature = "library"), entry_point)]
pub fn reply(deps: DepsMut, _env: Env, msg: Reply) -> Result<Response, ContractError> {
    let mut config: Config = CONFIG.load(deps.storage)?;

    if config.cw721_address != None {
        return Err(ContractError::Cw721AlreadyLinked {});
    }

    if msg.id != INSTANTIATE_TOKEN_REPLY_ID {
        return Err(ContractError::InvalidTokenReplyId {});
    }

    let reply = parse_reply_instantiate_data(msg).unwrap();
    config.cw721_address = Addr::unchecked(reply.contract_address).into();
    CONFIG.save(deps.storage, &config)?;

    Ok(Response::new())
}
```

In the first line, by using `load()`, we get the `CONFIG` Item data previously stored in the store and assign it to a `config` variable. Note that the `mut` keyword is used here because in this function we will modify the data of `config`.

The next two if statements is the logic to validate two fields: `config.cw721_address` and `msg.id`. First, if `config.cw721_address` already exists, the `Cw721AlreadyLinked` error is returned. Second, if `msg.id` is not equal to the reply_id of `SubMsg`, the `InvalidTokenReplyId` error will be returned. Let define these 2 errors in `src/error.rs` 

```rust
pub enum ContractError {

    // Previous code omitted

    #[error("InvalidTokenReplyId")]
    InvalidTokenReplyId {},

    #[error("Cw721AlreadyLinked")]
    Cw721AlreadyLinked {},

    // Following code omitted
}
```

About the last four lines of `reply` function. 

- In the first line, we use `parse_reply_instantiate_data()`, function of registry `cw_utils` with `msg` input to create a `reply` variable with it's type is a `MsgInstantiateContractResponse` struct. This struct has `contract_address` field that our contract need.
- In the second line, we will assign the value `reply.contract_address` to the `cw721_address` field of the `config`. There is data modification here, so `config` is declared with `mut` keyword.
- In the third line, we store config in our `CONFIG` storage to save changes.
- And the last line, similar to `instantiate` function, is our return line using the Ok structure of `Response` type.

Well, we have implemented the first `instantiate` entry point of our contract! Along with that, is `reply` entry point to reply callback triggered from cw721 contract instantiation. In the next section, we will implement `execute` entry_point for it!

[Submessage]: https://book.cosmwasm.com/actor-model/contract-as-actor.html#sending-submessages